.TH mspdebug 1 "24 Jul 2017" "Version 0.25"
.SH NAME
MSPDebug - debugging tool for MSP430 MCUs
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmspdebug\fR [options] \fIdriver\fR [\fIcommand\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
MSPDebug is a command-line tool designed for debugging and programming
the MSP430 family of MCUs. It supports the eZ430-F2013, eZ430-RF2500,
Launchpad, Chronos, FET430UIF, GoodFET, Olimex MSP430-JTAG-TINY and
MSP430-JTAG-ISO programming tools, as well as a simulation mode.

When started with appropriate options, MSPDebug will attempt to
connect to the debugging tool specified and identify the device under
test. Once connected, the user is presented with a command prompt
which can be used to reflash the device memory, inspect memory and
registers, set registers, and control the CPU (single step, run and
run to breakpoint).

It supports a variety of file formats, described in the section
\fBBINARY FORMATS\fR below. It can also be used as a remote stub
for \fBgdb\fR(1).

On startup, MSPDebug will look for a file called .mspdebug first in the
current directory, and then in the user's home directory. If either file
exists, commands will be read and executed from this file before
executing any other commands or starting the interactive reader.

Alternatively, a configuration file can be explicitly specified with the
\fB-C\fR option.
.SH COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
Command-line options accepted by MSPDebug are described below. If
commands are specified on the end of the command-line, then they are
executed after connecting to the device, and the interactive prompt is
not started. Please be aware that commands consisting of multiple
words need to be enclosed in quotation marks, otherwise they are
treated as single commands. Thus the common prog command would be
used as "prog main.elf".
See the section labelled \fBCOMMANDS\fR for more information.
.IP "\-q"
Start in quiet mode. See the "quiet" option described below.
.IP "\-v \fIvoltage\fR"
Set the programming voltage. The voltage should be specified as an integer
in millivolts. It defaults to 3000 (3.0 V).
.IP "\-j"
Use JTAG instead of Spy-Bi-Wire to communicate with the MSP430. This
option doesn't work with eZ430 or eZ430-RF2500 devices, which support
Spy-Bi-Wire only.
.IP "\-d \fIdevice\fR"
Specify that the driver should connect via a tty device rather than USB.
The supported connection methods vary depending on the driver. See the
section \fBDRIVERS\fR below for details.
.IP "\-U \fIbus\fR:\fIdevice\fR"
Specify a particular USB device to connect to. Without this option,
the first device of the appropriate type is opened.
.IP "\-s \fIserial\fR"
Specify a particular USB device serial number to connect to. Use this
option to distinguish between multiple devices of the same type.
.IP "\-n"
Do not process the startup file (~/.mspdebug).
.IP "\-C \fIfile\fR"
Specify an alternative configuration file (default is ~/.mspdebug). If -n
is specified as well, no file will be read.
.IP "\--long-password"
When using the flash-bsl driver, send a 32-byte BSL password instead
of the standard 16-byte password.
.IP "\-\-help"
Display a brief help message and exit.
.IP "\-\-fet\-list"
Display a list of chips supported by the FET driver (the driver used
for UIF, RF2500 and Olimex devices).
.IP "\-\-fet\-force\-id \fIstring\fR"
When using a FET device, force the connected chip to be recognised by
MSPDebug as one of the given type during initialization. This overrides
the device ID returned by the FET. The given string should be a chip
name in long form, for example "MSP430F2274".
.IP "\-\-fet\-skip\-close"
When using a FET device, skip the JTAG close procedure when disconnecting.
With some boards, this removes the need to replug the debugger after use.
.IP "\-\-usb\-list"
List available USB devices and exit.
.IP "\-\-force-reset"
When using a FET device, always send a reset during initialization. By
default, an initialization without reset will be tried first.
.IP "\-\-allow-fw-update"
When using a V3 FET device via the TI library, allow the library to
perform a firmware update if the FET firmware is incompatible with the
library.
.IP "\-\-require-fw-update \fIimage.txt\fR"
When using a V3 FET device, or certain Olimex devices, force a firmware
update using the given firmware image. The firmware format depends on
the driver.
.IP "\-\-version"
Show program version and copyright information.
.IP "\-\-embedded"
Start mspdebug as an embedded subprocess. See the documentation
accompanying the source release for more information on embedded mode.
.IP "\-\-bsl\-entry\-sequence \fIseq\fR"
Specify a BSL entry sequence. Each character specifies a modem control
line transition (R: RTS on, r: RTS off, D: DTR on, d: DTR off). A comma
indicates a delay. The entry and exit sequences are separated by a
colon. The default value is \fBdR,r,R,r,R,D:dR,DR\fR, for the
\fBflash-bsl\fR driver.
.SH DRIVERS
For drivers supporting both USB and tty access, USB is the default,
unless specified otherwise (see \fB-d\fR above).

On Linux, if USB access is used, the kernel driver (if any) is
detached from the tty device. If further access to the tty device is
needed, unloading and re-loading of the driver (e.g. cdc-acm.ko) is required.

A driver name must be specified on the command line for MSPDebug to
connect to. Valid driver names are listed here.
.IP "\fBrf2500\fR"
Connect to an eZ430-RF2500, Launchpad or Chronos device. Only USB
connection is supported.
.IP "\fBolimex\fR"
Connect to an Olimex MSP430-JTAG-TINY device. Both USB and tty access are
supported.
.IP "\fBolimex-v1\fR"
Connect to an Olimex MSP430-JTAG-TINY (V1) device. Both USB and tty access are
supported. This driver must be used instead of \fBolimex\fR if connecting
to a V1 device via a tty interface.
.IP "\fBolimex-iso\fR"
Connect to an Olimex MSP430-JTAG-ISO device. Both USB and tty access are
supported.
.IP "\fBolimex-iso-mk2\fR"
Connect to an Olimex MSP430-JTAG-ISO-MK2 device. Both USB and tty
access are supported.
.IP "\fBsim\fR"
Do not connect to any hardware device, but instead start in simulation
mode. A 64k buffer is allocated to simulate the device memory.

During simulation, addresses below 0x0200 are assumed to be IO memory.
Programmed IO writes to and from IO memory are handled by the IO
simulator, which can be configured and controlled with the \fBsimio\fR
command, described below.

This mode is intended for testing of changes to MSPDebug, and for
aiding the disassembly of MSP430 binaries (as all binary and symbol
table formats are still usable in this mode).
.IP "\fBuif\fR"
Connect to an eZ430-F2013 or a FET430UIF device. The device argument
should be the filename of the appropriate tty device. The TI serial
converter chips on these devices are supported by newer versions of the
Linux kernel, and should appear as /dev/tty\fIXX\fR when attached.

USB connection is supported for this driver. The USB interface chip in
these devices is a TI3410, which requires a firmware download on
startup. MSPDebug will search for a file called ti_3410.fw.ihex in
the configured library directory and the current directory. You can
specify an alternate location for the file via the
\fBMSPDEBUG_TI3410_FW\fR environment variable.
.IP "\fBuif-bsl\fR"
Connect to the bootloader on a FET430UIF device. These devices contain
MSP430F1612 chips. By sending a special command sequence, you can obtain
access to the bootloader and inspect memory on the MSP430F1612 in the
programming device itself.

Currently, only memory read/write and erase are supported. CPU control
via the bootloader is not possible.
.IP "\fBflash-bsl\fR"
Connect to the built-in bootloader in MSP430 devices with flash bootloader
memory. Devices with ROM bootloaders require another driver. Currently,
this driver must mass-erase the device in order to gain access. Read,
write, and erase operations are supported.

USB connection is not supported for this driver. Connection is via serial
port, and bootloader entry is accomplished via the RTS and DTR lines.
Connect RTS to the device's TEST pin and DTR to the device's RST pin.
Use an appropriate serial level-shifter to make the connection, if necessary.
If connecting to a device with non-multiplexed JTAG pins, connect RTS to
the device's TCK pin via an inverter.
.IP "\fBgdbc\fR"
GDB client mode. Connect to a server which implements the GDB remote
protocol and provide an interface to it. To use this driver, specify
the remote address in \fIhostname:port\fR format using the \fB-d\fR
option.
.IP "\fBtilib\fR"
Use the Texas Instruments MSP430.DLL to access the device. The library
file (MSP430.DLL for Windows, libmsp430.so for Unix-like systems) must
be present in the dynamic loader search path.

USB connection is not supported for this driver. This driver supports
watchpoints. Note that the \fB-d\fR option for this driver passes its
argument straight through to the library's \fBMSP430_Initialize\fR
function. Any special argument supported by that function is therefore
accessible via the \fB-d\fR option.

Automatic device discovery works only on Linux and Windows. On other
systems, the appropriate ACM serial node must be explicitly specified.
.IP "\fBgoodfet\fR"
Connect to a GoodFET device. JTAG mode must be used, and only tty access
is supported. This device can be used for memory access (read, erase and
program), but CPU control is limited. The CPU may be halted, run and
reset, but register access and breakpoints aren't supported.
.IP "\fBpif\fR"
Connect to a parallel-port JTAG controller. JTAG mode must be used, and
only tty access is supported. Currently, this driver is only supported
on Linux, FreeBSD and DragonFly BSD. A parallel port device (ppdev on
Linux, ppi on FreeBSD and DragonFly BSD) must be specified via the
\fB-d\fR option.
.IP "\fBgpio\fR"
Connect to system gpios. JTAG mode must be used, and
only tty access is supported. Currently, this driver is only supported
on Linux, FreeBSD and DragonFly BSD. The gpios to used must defined using
a string like "tdi=7 tdo=8 tms=9 tck=4 rst=10 tst=11" via the
\fB-d\fR option. (dont forget the quotes)

.IP "\fBload-bsl\fR"
Connect to a USB bootloader. The stub bootloader will be used to load a
fuller-featured bootloader into RAM for execution.
.IP "\fBezfet\fR"
This driver is for Texas Instruments' eZ-FET devices. It supports USB
and tty access. It does not support breakpoint control.
.IP "\fBrom-bsl\fR"
This driver is for the old-style (ROM) bootstrap loader. It supports tty
access only. Entry is attempted via the RTS/DTR signals. The default
sequence is \fBDR,r,R,r,d,R:DR,r\fR, but you can override this with the
\fB\-\-bsl\-entry\-sequence\fR option.

\fBWARNING:\fR this driver unlocks the BSL by performing a mass erase.
There are reports of this operation causing an erase of info A in some
devices. Use at your own risk.
.IP "\fBbus-pirate\fR"
Raw JTAG using Bus Pirate devices.
.SH COMMANDS
MSPDebug can accept commands either through an interactive prompt, or
non-interactively when specified on the command line. The supported
commands are listed below.

Commands take arguments separated by spaces. Any text string enclosed
in double-quotation marks is considered to be a single argument, even
if it contains space characters. Within a quoted string, the usual
C-style backslash substitutions can be used.

Commands can be specified by giving the first few characters of the
command name, provided that the prefix is unambiguous. Some commands
support automatic repeat. For these commands, pressing enter at the
reader prompt without typing anything will cause repeat execution.
.IP "\fB!\fR [\fIcommand\fR [\fIargs ...\fR]]"
Invoke an interactive operating system shell. If any arguments
are specified, the first one is taken as a command to execute, with the
rest of the arguments as the arguments to the command.

This command is not yet available on non-POSIX systems.
.IP "\fB=\fR \fIexpression\fR"
Evaluate an address expression and show both its value, and the result
when the value is looked up in reverse in the current symbol
table. This result is of the form \fIsymbol\fR+\fIoffset\fR, where
\fIsymbol\fR is the name of the nearest symbol not past the address in
question.

See the section marked \fBADDRESS EXPRESSIONS\fR for more information on
the syntax of expressions.
.IP "\fBalias\fR"
Show a list of defined command aliases.
.IP "\fBalias\fR \fIname\fR"
Remove a previously defined command alias.
.IP "\fBalias\fR \fIname\fR \fIcommand\fR"
Define a command alias. The text \fIcommand\fR will be substituted for
\fIname\fR when looking up commands. The given command text may contain
a command plus arguments, if the entire text is wrapped in quotes when
defining the alias. To avoid alias substitution when interpreting
commands, prefix the command with \\ (a backslash character).
.IP "\fBblow_jtag_fuse\fR"
Blow the device's JTAG fuse.

.B WARNING: this is an irreversible operation!
.IP "\fBbreak\fR"
Show a list of active breakpoints. Breakpoints can be added and removed
with the \fBsetbreak\fR and \fBdelbreak\fR commands. Each breakpoint is
numbered with an integer index starting at 0.
.IP "\fBcgraph\fR \fIaddress\fR \fIlength\fR [\fIaddress\fR]"
Construct the call graph of all functions contained or referenced in
the given range of memory. If a particular function is specified, then
details for that node of the graph are displayed. Otherwise, a summary
of all nodes is displayed.

Information from the symbol table is used for hinting at the possible
locations of function starts. Any symbol which does not contain a "."
is considered a possible function start.

Callers and callee names are shown prefixed by a "*" where the
transition is a tail-call type transition.
.IP "\fBdelbreak\fR [\fIindex\fR]"
Delete one or all breakpoints. If an index is given, the selected breakpoint
is deleted. Otherwise, all breakpoints are cleared.
.IP "\fBdis\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fIlength\fR]"
Dissassemble a section of memory. Both arguments may be address
expressions. If no length is specified, a section of the default
length (64 bytes) is disassembled and shown.

If symbols are available, then all addresses used as operands are
translated into \fIsymbol\fR+\fIoffset\fR form.

This command supports repeat execution. If repeated, it continues to
disassemble another block of memory following that last printed.
.IP "\fBerase\fR [\fBall\fR|\fBsegment\fR|\fBsegrange\fR] [\fIaddress\fR] [\fIsize\fR] [\fIsegrange\fR]"
Erase the device under test. With no arguments, all code memory is erased
(but not information or boot memory). With the argument "all", a mass
erase is performed (the results may depend on the state of the LOCKA
bit in the flash memory controller).

Specify "segment" and a memory address to erase an individual flash
segment. Specify "segrange", an address, size and segment size to erase
an arbitrary set of contiguous segments.
.IP "\fBexit\fR"
Exit from MSPDebug.
.IP "\fBfill\fR \fIaddress\fR \fIlength\fR \fIb0\fR [\fIb1\fR \fIb2\fR ...]
Fill the memory region of size \fIlength\fR starting at \fIaddress\fR with
the pattern of bytes given (specified in hexadecimal). The pattern will be
repeated without padding as many times as necessary without exceeding the
bounds of the specified region.
.IP "\fBgdb\fR [\fIport\fR]"
Start a GDB remote stub, optionally specifying a TCP port to listen on.
If no port is given, the default port is controlled by the option
\fBgdb_default_port\fR.

MSPDebug will wait for a connection on this port, and then act as a
GDB remote stub until GDB disconnects.

GDB's "monitor" command can be used to issue MSPDebug commands via the
GDB interface. Supplied commands are executed non-interactively, and
the output is sent back to be displayed in GDB.
.IP "\fBhelp\fR [\fIcommand\fR]"
Show a brief listing of available commands. If an argument is
specified, show the syntax for the given command. The help text shown
when no argument is given is also shown when MSPDebug starts up.
.IP "\fBhexout\fR \fIaddress\fR \fIlength\fR \fIfilename\fR"
Read the specified section of the device memory and save it to an
Intel HEX file. The address and length arguments may both be address
expressions.

If the specified file already exists, then it will be overwritten. If
you need to dump memory from several disjoint memory regions, you can
do this by saving each section to a separate file. The resulting files
can then be concatenated together to form a single valid HEX file.
.IP "\fBisearch\fR \fIaddress\fR \fIlength\fR [\fIoptions\fR ...]"
Search over the given range for an instruction which matches the specified
search criteria. The search may be narrowed by specifying one or more of
the following terms:
.RS
.IP "\fBopcode\fR \fIopcode\fR"
Match the specified opcode. Byte/word specifiers are not recognised, as
they are specified with other options.
.IP "\fBbyte\fR"
Match only byte operations.
.IP "\fBword\fR"
Match only word operations.
.IP "\fBaword\fR"
Match only address-word (20-bit) operations.
.IP "\fBjump\fR"
Match only jump instructions (conditional and unconditional jumps, but
not instructions such as BR which load the program counter explicitly).
.IP "\fBsingle\fR"
Match only single-operand instructions.
.IP "\fBdouble\fR"
Match only double-operand instructions.
.IP "\fBnoarg\fR"
Match only instructions with no arguments.
.IP "\fBsrc\fR \fIaddress\fR"
Match instructions with the specified value in the source operand. The value
may be given as an address expression. Specifying this option implies matching
of only double-operand instructions.
.IP "\fBdst\fR \fIaddress\fR"
Match instructions with the specified value in the destination
operand. This option implies that no-argument instructions are not
matched.
.IP "\fBsrcreg\fR \fIregister\fR"
Match instructions using the specified register in the source operand. This
option implies matching of only double-operand instructions.
.IP "\fBdstreg\fR \fIregister\fR"
Match instructions using the specified register in the destination operand.
This option implies that no-argument instructions are not matched.
.IP "\fBsrcmode\fR \fImode\fR"
Match instructions using the specified mode in the source operand. See
below for a list of modes recognised. This option implies matching of
only double-operand instructions.
.IP "\fBdstmode\fR \fImode\fR"
Match instructions using the specified mode in the destination operand. See
below for a list of modes. This option implies that no-argument instructions
are not matched.
.RE
.IP
For single-operand instructions, the operand is considered to be the
destination operand.

The seven addressing modes used by the MSP430 are represented by single
characters, and are listed here:
.RS
.IP "\fBR\fR"
Register mode.
.IP "\fBI\fR"
Indexed mode.
.IP "\fBS\fR"
Symbolic mode.
.IP "\fB&\fR"
Absolute mode.
.IP "\fB@\fR"
Register-indirect mode.
.IP "\fB+\fR"
Register-indirect mode with auto-increment.
.IP "\fB#\fR"
Immediate mode.
.RE
.IP "\fBload\fR \fIfilename\fR"
Program the device under test using the binary file supplied. This
command is like \fBprog\fR, but it does not load symbols or erase
the device before programming.

The CPU is reset and halted before and after programming.
.IP "\fBload_raw\fR \fIfilename\fR \fIaddress\fR"
Write the data contained in a raw binary file to the given memory address.

The CPU is reset and halted before and after programming.
.IP "\fBmd\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fIlength\fR]"
Read the specified section of device memory and display it as a
canonical\-style hexdump. Both arguments may be address expressions. If
no length is specified, a section of the default length (64 bytes) is
shown.

The output is split into three columns. The first column shows the
starting address for the line. The second column lists the hexadecimal
values of the bytes. The final column shows the ASCII characters
corresponding to printable bytes, and . for non-printing characters.

This command supports repeat execution. If repeated, it continues to
print another block of memory following that last printed.
.IP "\fBmw\fR \fIaddress\fR \fIbytes\fR ..."
Write a sequence of bytes at the given memory address. The address given
may be an address expression. Bytes values are two-digit hexadecimal
numbers separated by spaces.
.IP "\fBopt\fR [\fIname\fR] [\fIvalue\fR]"
Query, set or list option variables. MSPDebug's behaviour can be configured
using option variables, described below in the section \fBOPTIONS\fR.

Option variables may be of three types: boolean, numeric or text. Numeric
values may be specified as address expressions.

With no arguments, this command displays all available option variables.
With just an option name as its argument, it displays the current value
of that option.
.IP "\fBpower info\fR"
Show basic power statistics gathered over the last few sessions. This
includes total charge consumption, run time and average current.
.IP "\fBpower clear\fR"
Clear all recorded power statistics.
.IP "\fBpower all\fR [\fIgranularity\fR]"
Show sample data gathered over all sessions. An optional granularity can
be specified, in microseconds. For each time slice, relative session time,
charge consumption, current consumption and approximate code location are
shown.
.IP "\fBpower session\fR \fIN\fR [\fIgranularity\fR]"
Same as \fBpower all\fR, except that data is shown only for the \fIN\fRth
session.
.IP "\fBpower export-csv\fR \fIN\fR \fIfilename\fR"
Export raw sample data for the \fIN\fRth session to the given file in CSV
format. For each line, the columns are, in order: relative time in
microseconds, current consumption in microamps, memory address.
.IP "\fBpower profile\fR"
If a symbol table is loaded, compile and correlate all gathered power data
against the symbol table. A single table is then shown listing, per function,
charge consumption, run time and average current. The functions are listed
in order of charge consumption (biggest consumers first).
.IP "\fBprog\fR \fIfilename\fR"
Erase and reprogram the device under test using the binary file
supplied. The file format will be auto-detected and may be any of
the supported file formats.

In the case of a file containing symbols, symbols will be automatically
loaded from the file into the symbol table (discarding any existing
symbols), if they are present.

The CPU is reset and halted before and after programming.
.IP "\fBread\fR \fIfilename\fR"
Read commands from the given file, line by line and process each one.
Any lines whose first non-space character is \fB#\fR are ignored. If
an error occurs while processing a command, the rest of the file is not
processed.
.IP "\fBregs\fR"
Show the current value of all CPU registers in the device under test.
.IP "\fBreset\fR"
Reset (and halt) the CPU of the device under test.
.IP "\fBrun\fR"
Start running the CPU. The interactive command prompt is blocked when
the CPU is started and the prompt will not appear again until the CPU
halts. The CPU will halt if it encounters a breakpoint, or if Ctrl\-C
is pressed by the user.

After the CPU halts, the current register values are shown as well as
a disassembly of the first few instructions at the address selected
by the program counter.
.IP "\fBsave_raw\fR \fIaddress\fR \fIlength\fR \fIfilename\fR"
Save a region of memory to a raw binary file. The address and length
arguments may both be address expressions.

If the specified file already exists, then it will be overwritten.
.IP "\fBset\fR \fIregister\fR \fIvalue\fR"
Alter the value of a register. Registers are specified as numbers from
0 through 15. Any leading non-numeric characters are ignored (so a
register may be specified as, for example, "R12"). The value argument
is an address expression.
.IP "\fBsetbreak\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fIindex\fR]"
Add a new breakpoint. The breakpoint location is an address expression. An
optional index may be specified, indicating that this new breakpoint should
overwrite an existing slot. If no index is specified, then the breakpoint
will be stored in the next unused slot.
.IP "\fBsetwatch\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fIindex\fR]"
Add a new watchpoint. The watchpoint location is an address expression, and
an optional index may be specified. Watchpoints are considered to be a type
of breakpoint and can be inspected or removed using the \fBbreak\fR and
\fBdelbreak\fR commands. Note that not all drivers support watchpoints.
.IP "\fBsetwatch_r\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fIindex\fR]"
Add a watchpoint which is triggered only on read access.
.IP "\fBsetwatch_w\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fIindex\fR]"
Add a watchpoint which is triggered only on write access.
.IP "\fBsimio add\fR \fIclass\fR \fIname\fR [\fIargs ...\fR]"
Add a new peripheral to the IO simulator. The \fIclass\fR parameter may be
any of the peripheral types named in the output of the \fBsimio classes\fR
command. The \fIname\fR parameter is a unique name assigned by the user to
this peripheral instance, and is used with other commands to refer to this
instance of the peripheral.

Some peripheral classes take arguments upon creation. These are documented
in the output to the \fBsimio help\fR command.
.IP "\fBsimio classes\fR"
List the names of the different types of peripherals which may be added to
the simulator. You can use the \fBsimio help\fR command to obtain more
information about each peripheral type.
.IP "\fBsimio config\fR \fIname\fR \fIparam\fR [\fIargs ...\fR]"
Configure or perform some action on a peripheral instance. The \fIparam\fR
argument is specific to the peripheral type. A list of valid configuration
commands can be obtained by using the \fBsimio help\fR command.
.IP "\fBsimio del\fR \fIname\fR"
Remove a previously added peripheral instance. The \fIname\fR argument
should be the name of the peripheral that was assigned with the
\fBsimio add\fR command.
.IP "\fBsimio devices\fR"
List all peripheral instances currently attached to the simulator, along
with their types and interrupt status. You can obtain more detailed
information for each instance with the \fBsimio info\fR command.
.IP "\fBsimio help\fR \fIclass\fR"
Obtain more information about a peripheral class. The documentation
given will list constructor arguments and configuration parameters for
the device type.
.IP "\fBsimio info\fR \fIname\fR"
Display detailed status information for a particular peripheral. The type
of information displayed is specific to each type of peripheral.
.IP "\fBstep\fR [\fIcount\fR]"
Step the CPU through one or more instructions. After stepping, the new
register values are displayed, as well as a disassembly of the
instructions at the address selected by the program counter.

An optional count can be specified to step multiple times. If no
argument is given, the CPU steps once. This command supports repeat
execution.
.IP "\fBsym clear\fR"
Clear the symbol table, deleting all symbols.
.IP "\fBsym set\fR \fIname\fR \fIvalue\fR"
Set or alter the value of a symbol. The value given may be an address
expression.
.IP "\fBsym del\fR \fIname\fR"
Delete the given symbol from the symbol table.
.IP "\fBsym import\fR \fIfilename\fR"
Load symbols from the specified file and add them to the symbol table.
The file format will be auto-detected and may be either ELF32 or a
BSD-style symbol listing (like the output from \fBnm\fR(1)).

Symbols can be combined from many sources, as the syms command adds
to the existing symbol table without discarding existing symbols.
.IP "\fBsym import+\fR \fIfilename\fR"
This command is similar to \fBsym import\fR, except that the symbol table
is not cleared first. By using this command, symbols from multiple
sources can be combined.
.IP "\fBsym export\fR \fIfilename\fR"
Save all symbols currently defined to the given file. The symbols are
saved as a BSD-style symbol table. Note that symbol types are not stored
by MSPDebug, and all symbols are saved as type \fBt\fR.
.IP "\fBsym find\fR [\fIregex\fR]"
Search for symbols. If a regular expression is given, then all symbols
matching the expression are printed. If no expression is specified, then
the entire symbol table is listed.
.IP "\fBsym rename\fR \fIregex\fR \fIstring\fR"
Rename symbols by searching for those matching the given regular
expression and substituting the given string for the matched portion. The
symbols renamed are displayed, as well as a total count of all symbols
renamed.
.IP "\fBverify \fIfilename\fR"
Compare the contents of the given binary file to the chip memory. If any
differences are found, a message is printed for the first mismatched
byte.
.IP "\fBverify_raw \fIfilename\fR \fIaddress\fR"
Compare the contents of a raw binary file to the device memory at the given
address. If any differences are found, a message is printed for the first
mismatched byte.
.SH BINARY FORMATS
The following binary/symbol formats are supported by MSPDebug:

.RS
ELF32
.br
COFF
.br
Intel HEX (program only)
.br
BSD symbol table (symbols only)
.br
TI Text (program only)
.br
SREC (program only)
.RE
.SH IO SIMULATOR
The IO simulator subsystem consists of a database of device classes, and a
list of instances of those classes. Each device class has a different
set of constructor arguments, configuration parameters and information which
may be displayed. This section describes the operation of the available
device classes in detail.

In the list below, each device class is listed, followed by its constructor
arguments.
.IP "\fBgpio\fR"
Digital IO port simulator. This device simulates any of the digital ports
with or without interrupt capability. It has the following configuration
parameters:
.RS
.IP "\fBbase\fR \fIaddress\fR"
Set the base address for this port. Note that for ports without interrupt
capability, the resistor enable port has a special address which is
computable from the base address.
.IP "\fBirq\fR \fIvector\fR"
Enable interrupt functionality for this port by specifying an interrupt
vector number.
.IP "\fBnoirq\fR"
Disable interrupt functionality for this port.
.IP "\fBverbose\fR"
Print a state change message every time the port output changes.
.IP "\fBquiet\fR"
Don't print anything when the port state changes (the default).
.IP "\fBset\fR \fIpin\fR \fIvalue\fR"
Set the input pin state for the given pin on this port. The \fIpin\fR
parameter should be an index between 0 and 7. The \fIvalue\fR should be
either zero (for a low state) or non-zero (for a high state).
.RE
.IP "\fBhwmult\fR"
This peripheral simulates the hardware multiplier. It has no constructor or
configuration parameters, and does not provide any extended information.
.IP "\fBtimer\fR [\fIsize\fR]"
This peripheral simulators Timer_A modules, and can be used to simulate
Timer_B modules, provided that the extended features aren't required.

The constructor takes a size argument specifying the number of capture/compare
registers in this peripheral instance. The number of such registers may not
be less than 2, or greater than 7.

The IO addresses and IRQs used are configurable. The default IO addresses used
are those specified for Timer_A in the MSP430 hardware documentation.
.RS
.IP "\fBbase\fR \fIaddress\fR"
Alter the base IO address. By default, this is 0x0160. By setting this to 0x0180,
a Timer_B module may be simulated.
.IP "\fBirq0\fR \fInumber\fR"
Set the TACCR0 interrupt vector number. By default, this is interrupt vector 9.
This interrupt is self-clearing, and higher priority than the TACCR1/TAIFG
vector.
.IP "\fBirq1\fR \fInumber\fR"
Set the TACCR1/TAIFG interrupt vector. By default, this is interrupt vector 8.
.IP "\fBiv\fR \fIaddress\fR"
Alter the address of the interrupt vector register. By default, this is 0x012E.
By setting this to 0x011E, a Timer_B module may be simulated.
.IP "\fBset\fR \fIchannel\fR \fIvalue\fR"
When Timer_A is used in capture mode, the CCI bit in each capture register reflects
the state of the corresponding input pin, and can't be altered in software. This
configuration command can be used to simulate changes in input pin state, and will
trigger the corresponding interrupts if the peripheral is so configured.
.RE
.IP "\fBtracer\fR [\fIhistory-size\fR]"
The tracer peripheral is a debugging device. It can be used to investigate
and record the IO activity of a running program, to benchmark execution time,
and to simulate interrupts.

The information displayed by the tracer gives a running count of clock cycles
from each of the system clocks, and an instruction count. A list of the \fIN\fR
most recent IO events is also displayed (this is configurable via the \fIhistory-size\fR
argument of the constructor). Each IO event is timestamped by the number of
MCLK cycles that have elapsed since the last reset of the device's counter.

The IO events that it records consist of programmed IO reads and writes,
interrupt acceptance, and system resets. As well as keeping the IO events in a
rotating buffer, the tracer can be configured to display the events as they
occur.

Note that since clock cycles don't advance while the CPU isn't running, this
peripheral can be used to calculate execution times for blocks of code. This
can be achieved by setting a breakpoint at the end of the code block, setting the
program counter to the start of the code block, clearing the tracer and running
the code. After the breakpoint is reached, the information displayed by the
tracer will contain a count of MCLK cycles elapsed during the last run.

The configuration parameters for this device class are:
.RS
.IP "\fBverbose\fR"
Start displaying IO events as they occur, as well as recording them in the
rotating buffer.
.IP "\fBquiet\fR"
Stop displaying IO events as they occur, and just record them in the buffer.
.IP "\fBtrigger\fR \fIirq\fR"
Signal an interrupt request to the CPU. This request will remain raised until
accepted by the CPU or cleared by the user.
.IP "\fBuntrigger\fR"
Clear a signalled interrupt request.
.IP "\fBclear\fR"
Reset the clock cycle and instruction counts to 0, and clear the IO event
history.
.RE
.IP "\fBwdt\fR"
This peripheral simulates the Watchdog Timer+, which can be used in software
either as a watchdog or as an interval timer. It has no constructor arguments.

The simulated state of the NMI/RST# pin can be controlled through a configuration
parameter. Note that if this pin state is held low with the pin mode selected
as a reset (the default), the CPU will not run.

The extended information for this peripheral shows all register states, including
the hidden counter register. Configuration parameters are:
.RS
.IP "\fBnmi\fR \fIstate\fR"
Set the NMI/RST# pin state. The argument should be zero to indicate a low state
or non-zero for a high state.
.IP "\fBirq\fR \fIirq\fR"
Select the interrupt vector for interval timer mode. The default is to use
interrupt vector 10.
.SH ADDRESS EXPRESSIONS
Any command which accepts a memory address, length or register value
as an argument may be given an address expression. An address
expression consists of an algebraic combination of values.

An address value can be one of the following:
.RS
A symbol name
.br
A CPU register name preceded with "@"
.br
A hex value preceded with the specifier "0x"
.br
A decimal value preceded with the specifier "0d"
.br
A number in the default input radix (without a specifier). See the option
\fBiradix\fR for more information.
.RE

The operators recognised are the usual algebraic operators: \fB+\fR, \fB-\fR,
\fB*\fR, \fB/\fR, \fB%\fR, \fB(\fR and \fB)\fR. Operator precedence is the
same as in C-like languages, and the \fB-\fR operator may be used as a
unary negation operator.

The following are all valid examples of address expressions:

.B 2+2
.br
.B table_start + (elem_size + elem_pad)*4
.br
.B main+0x3f
.br
.B __bss_end-__bss_start
.br
.B @sp
.SH OPTIONS
MSPDebug's behaviour can be configured via the following variables:
.IP "\fBcolor\fR (boolean)"
If true, MSPDebug will colorize debugging output.
.IP "\fBfet_block_size\fR (numeric)"
Change the size of the buffer used to transfer memory to and from the
FET. Increasing the value from the default of 64 will improve transfer
speed, but may cause problems with some chips.
.IP "\fBenable_bsl_access\fR (boolean)"
If set, some drivers will allow erase/program access to flash
BSL memory. If in doubt, do not enable this.
.IP "\fBenable_locked_flash_access\fR (boolean)"
If set, some drivers will allow erase/program access to the info A
segment. If in doubt, do not enable this. Currently, the tilib and uif
drivers are affected by this option.
.IP "\fBenable_fuse_blow\fR"
If set, some drivers will allow the JTAG security fuse to be blown.

.B WARNING: this is an irreversible operation!

If in doubt, do not enable this option.
.IP "\fBgdb_default_port\fR (numeric)"
This option controls the default TCP port for the GDB server, if no
argument is given to the "\fBgdb\fR" command.
.IP "\fBgdb_loop\fR (boolean)"
Automatically restart the GDB server after disconnection. If this
option is set, then the GDB server keeps running until an error occurs,
or the user interrupts with Ctrl+C.
.IP "\fBgdbc_xfer_size\fR (numeric)"
Maximum size of memory transfers for the GDB client. Increasing this
value will result in faster transfers, but may cause problems with some
servers.
.IP "\fBiradix\fR (numeric)"
Default input radix for address expressions. For address values with
no radix specifier, this value gives the input radix, which is
10 (decimal) by default.
.IP "\fBquiet\fR (boolean)"
If set, MSPDebug will supress most of its debug-related output. This option
defaults to false, but can be set true on start-up using the \fB-q\fR
command-line option.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "\fBMSPDEBUG_TI3410_FW\fI"
Specifies the location of TI3410 firmware, for raw USB access to FET430UIF
or eZ430 devices. This variable should contain the path to an Intel HEX
file containing suitable firmware for the TI3410.
.SH FILES
.IP "~/.mspdebug"
File containing commands to be executed on startup.
.IP "ti_3410.fw.ihex"
Firmware image for the TI3410 USB interface chip. This file is only
required for raw USB access to FET430UIF or eZ430 devices.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBnm\fR(1), \fBgdb\fR(1), \fBobjcopy\fR(1)
.SH BUGS
If you find any bugs, you should report them to the author at
dlbeer@gmail.com. It would help if you could include a transcript
of an MSPDebug session illustrating the program, as well as any
relevant binaries or other files.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009-2013 Daniel Beer <dlbeer@gmail.com>

MSPDebug is free software, distributed under the terms of the GNU
General Public license (version 2 or later). See the file COPYING
included with the source code for more details.
